The Troy Psychogeographic Library (TPL) is an offline, hyperlocal, peer-to-peer file sharing network in physical space. The library is a neighborhood digital commons—a resource promoting the fluid exchange of cultural materials like music, books, zines, and even cryptocurrency. The library is also a walking-based “game,” which encourages citizens to deviate from their predictable paths in order to form new perspectives on the City of Troy (spatially and otherwise). The library is designed to be a flexible, inclusive platform that allows artists, social geographers, and community members to use it in the ways they see fit. Ideally, the library will inspire others to develop new spaces of resistance and alternative forms of sociality and creativity in light of neoliberal cultural forces and the pressures of individualization.

How do I access the Troy Psychogeographic Library? 

The Troy Psychogeographic Libray is a network of USB dead drops in the City of Troy, New York. A USB dead drop is a USB mass storage device installed in a public space. TPL dead drops are not cemented into walls, but rather placed inside weatherproof bags + handy boxes to maximize accessibility. Many of the dead drops are discretely located in “forgotten” and disused spaces on the north side of the city, however, there are several easily discoverable dead drops located inside Troy's Free Little Libraries. The “library-goer” can utilize the TPL map to identify where the dead drops are located. If one of the dead drops is discovered, the user is then welcome to download the files from the thumb drive and/or upload their own files. As a reward for finding one of the dead drops, the user can claim a bitcoin prize by following the instructions on the drive. 
